1\) With regard to the Constitution of Canada, which of the following is
*true*?

a\. The Constitution Act, 1982 provides only which matters can be dealt
with by the federal government.

b\. The British Parliament can continue pass legislation that affects
Canada\'s laws.

\*c. The Constitution Act, 1982 contains a Charter of Rights and
Freedoms that limits the power of the federal and provincial
legislatures.

d\. Federal judges have been given the sole power to amend the Charter
of Rights and Freedoms.

2\) Which of the following will overrule a particular Provincial rule of
common law made by a judge of the highest trial court (i.e. the BC
Supreme Court) in the Province?

\*a. A contrary later ruling by the Court of Appeal of the same
Province.

b\. A new provincial statute to the contrary in another Province.

c\. A contrary ruling by a small claims court judge of the same
Province.

d\. A contrary ruling by a superior court judge in another Province.

e\. A contrary ruling by a Court of Appeal of another Province.

3\) In regard to the relationship between the judiciary (courts) and the
parliament/legislatures, which of the following is *false*?

a\. Unless it is inconsistent with the constitution, a clearly worded
statute generally overrides case law on the same point.

\*b. The courts have no authority to affect a statute once it has been
passed by the Federal Parliament.

c\. The courts have the power to declare a provincial statute to be void
and of no effect if it is beyond the authority of the provincial
government to enact such a law.

d\. A provincial statute could be declared illegal by the courts for
being contrary to the Charter of Rights and Freedoms.

4\) Which of the following is *correct* with respect to the
characteristics of stare decisis in the common law?

a\. It is based on trial by battle and trial by ordeal.

b\. It prevents a higher court from overruling a lower one.

\*c. It helps the parties to predict a court's decision.

d\. This term refers to the role played by the courts of equity in our
system.

e\. It allows the courts to overrule legislation.

5\) While the Charter of Rights and Freedoms protects individuals\'
rights from government abuses, there is still no legislation to protect
individuals from being discriminated against by private employers.

a\. True

\*b. False

6\) A person has to prove only that another caused his injury to succeed
in a negligence action.

a\. True

\*b. False

7\) Which one of the following statements with regard to the
characteristics of civil and criminal actions is *correct*?

a\. If a person is convicted of a criminal offence, the victim of the
crime cannot also sue that person in a civil action.

\*b. In a civil action, a person usually sues another to get compensated
for injury or loss.

c\. In a criminal case, an individual person is taking action against
the accused.

d\. The Crown Prosecutor must prove his or her case based upon a balance
of probabilities.

e\. The person who begins a civil action is usually called the
Prosecutor.

8\) Where the facts are sufficiently similar, the British Columbia Court
of Appeal is bound by a decision of the Supreme Court of British
Columbia.

a\. True

\*b. False

9\) Distinguishing the facts or argument by dissimilarity refers to a
legal argument that a precedent should not be followed because the facts
of the precedent are different from the case now in court.

\*a. True

b\. False

10\) The Provincial governments have the power to make law with respect
to things not listed in either section 91 or 92 of the Constitution Act,
1867.

a\. True

\*b. False

11\) Which of the following is an advantage of the mediation process?

a\. Full disclosure

\*b. Less expensive than litigation

c\. Overcomes power imbalances

d\. Redress for injury

e\. Consistent outcomes

12\) The highest court in British Columbia is the Supreme Court of
British Columbia.

a\. True

\*b. False

13\) Special damages are those which cannot be precisely calculated; the
court estimates the amount of compensation to the victim.

a\. True

\*b. False

14\) Which one of the following is *correct* with respect to dispute
resolution?

a\. An advantage of arbitration over mediation is that the arbitrator
assists the parties in reaching a non-binding agreement.

b\. The parties to a dispute cannot mediate once litigation has begun.

c\. When the defendant makes a payment into court, and it turns out at
trial that the payment into court is in excess of the amount awarded to
the plaintiff, the court may impose extra costs on the defendant.

d\. An advantage of mediation over arbitration is that a mediator,
unlike an arbitrator, can impose a binding settlement on the parties.

\*e. If the Plaintiff misses a limitation period, the Defendant is
within his rights to refuse to enter into negotiations with the
Plaintiff.

15\) Which one of the following is *correct* with respect to
jurisdiction and the process of civil litigation?

a\. Small Claims Court jurisdiction in B.C. is limited to a maximum of
\$100,000.

b\. As a general rule, if an employer is liable for damages as a result
of a tort, the court will hold his employee vicariously liable for that
tort.

\*c. Once a judgment is obtained, that judgment can sometimes be
enforced by seizing the Defendant's assets.

d\. A Counterclaim is the document a Plaintiff files in response to the
Defendant\'s Response to a Civil Claim.

e\. The Plaintiff lives in B.C. The cause of action arose in Alberta.
The Defendant lives in Ontario. The plaintiff can sue in B.C.

16\) In a civil lawsuit who has the burden of proof?

a\. Balance of probabilities

b\. Prosecutor

c\. Defendant

d\. Reasonable doubt

\*e. Plaintiff

17\) A Plaintiff is found to be 20% liable for all damages of \$100,000
caused to her by the Defendant. She should therefore be entitled to
\$80,000.

\*a. True

b\. False

18\) When a Defendant does not respond to a notice of civil claim a
default judgment can be made against him or her.

\*a. True

b\. False

19\) In an examination for discovery each party is questioned by his or
her own lawyer so that the party can give evidence in front of a court
reporter at trial.

a\. True

\*b. False

20\) Read the following and indicate which statement is *correct*.

a\. If a person is given a blood transfusion after saying she didn\'t
want one, the cause of action would be negligence.

b\. If a person suffers a loss because a salesman knowingly made a false
statement about the product he was selling, the cause of action would be
passing off.

c\. If a man is injured falling over boxes that a neighbour wrongfully
leaves in his garage, the cause of action would be battery.

d\. If a person suffers damage because of wiring improperly installed by
John doing work for his employer, only John would be sued for
negligence.

\*e. If business "A" suffers damage because business "B" persuades
"A\'s" key employee to work for "B", a potential cause of action would
be inducing breach of contract.

21\) Which of the following is *correct* with respect to the meaning of
an insurable interest?

a\. An insurable interest means that the person causing the loss is
required to show enough interest in what he is doing to be prudent and
careful.

b\. The insurance company must have received a premium before it can be
said to have an interest in the agreement and be bound to pay when a
claim is made.

c\. The beneficiary or person receiving payment must have an ownership
interest in the thing being insured.

\*d. The person taking out the insurance contract must be in a position
that he will suffer a loss if the insured-against event occurs.

e\. This term describes when a person has taken out insurance on
something.

22\) Which one of the following is an intentional tort?

a\. Negligence

b\. Stare decisis

c\. Bias

\*d. Defamation

e\. Undue influence.

23\) After the Mitchells filled their swimming pool for the summer
season, swarms of bees regularly came across the fence into the swimming
pool to sip some water. The bees stung everyone in the Mitchell's yard
and made it impossible for the Mitchells to enjoy their pool. Unknown to
the Mitchells, their neighbour, Kaminsky, had six bee hives brought on
his property as he wanted to produce honey. Which one of the following
is *correct*?

a\. The Mitchells may have an action against Kaminsky for intimidation.

\*b. The Mitchells may have an action against Kaminsky for nuisance.

c\. The Mitchells may have an action against Kaminsky under the Human
Rights Act.

d\. The Mitchells have an action against Kaminsky for trespass to
chattels.

e\. Kaminsky may be able to use the defence of qualified privilege.

24\) Trevor and Roger, employees of Ezon Ltd., accidentally dropped a
crate that they were unloading. The crate just missed an eighty year old
lady, Mrs. Sloe, who was on her way to the bus stop. She was not hurt at
all, and was not upset because it fell behind her. Just to be sure she
was not hurt or upset, Trevor said, "Let me take your arm and help you
to the bus." She agreed, so he took her by the arm and walked with her
to the bus stop. When they arrived at the stop, where others were
waiting, she turned to him and shouted, "Let go of me! You have no right
to touch me!" Then she hit him with her purse. On these facts, which of
the following is *true*?

a\. Mrs. Sloe could successfully sue Trevor and Roger for trespass.

b\. Mrs. Sloe could successfully sue Trevor for battery.

\*c. In law, the battery was committed by Mrs. Sloe.

d\. In a tort action, the burden of proving the tort is on the
Defendant.

25\) Which of the following best describes the legal meaning of the tort
of assault?

\*a. I throw a hammer at your head, but you see it coming and jump out
of the way.

b\. When you are asleep in your house, I throw a stone through your
garage window.

c\. I accidentally drop a hammer on your foot.

d\. I sneak up behind you, so you don't see me coming, and push you
down.

26\) Jane was attempting to climb over a fence to get into a private
cemetery to visit a grave site. The fence collapsed causing Jane to fall
and she suffered a serious injury. Which of the following is *true* in
regard to an occupier's liability?

\*a. The standard of care required of an occupier is governed by
provincial statute.

b\. An occupier owes no duty of care whatsoever to a trespasser.

c\. There is no duty of care owed to persons who enter another person's
property whether invited or not; people must take the responsibility to
look after themselves.

d\. Where property is leased the legal duty of care is on the landowner,
not the tenant.

27\) A person who sells fake goods under another person's brand name can
be sued for the tort of conversion.

a\. True

\*b. False

28\) If an employee reasonably believes an innocent co-worker is
stealing from their employer and reports this to their supervisor, his
best defence in a claim of defamation by the co-worker would be absolute
privilege.

a\. True

\*b. False

29\) Mr. Sanders wrote a letter to the Editor of the Vancouver Province
in which he falsely alleged that the Police Chief took a bribe. The
Editor and ten others on staff read it but decided not to print it in
the newspaper. Which one of the following is *correct*?

a\. The Police Chief could not successfully sue for libel because he is
a public figure.

\*b. The Police Chief could successfully sue for libel because the
allegation was false and damaging to him.

c\. The Police Chief could not successfully sue for libel because the
letter was not published in the paper.

d\. If Mr. Sanders had an honest belief that the police chief took a
bribe, Mr. Sanders is protected by qualified privilege.

e\. The Police Chief could successfully sue for libel because he has
qualified privilege.

30\) Which of the following statements best describes the standard
expected of experts?

a\. Requires skills and abilities expected of an average person.

\*b. Must exercise skill with degree of care expected from a reasonable
person in that profession.

c\. Inexperience excuses incompetence.

d\. Common practice in a particular profession always sets the
appropriate standard.

e\. The standard of an expert is lower than that of a non-expert.

31\) The essential elements of a negligence action do not include which
of the following?

a\. duty of care

\*b. failure to help someone in dire need

c\. an injury that is reasonably foreseeable

d\. damages resulting from a breach of duty of care

e\. a breach of duty causing damage

32\) Mr. Reasoner was looking out his living room window and saw John,
his neighbour, trying to burn leaves. John threw gasoline on the damp
leaves and when John lit a match, there was an explosion that sent
flames in every direction. Luckily, no one was hurt, and the flame that
shot onto Mr. Reasoner's property caused no damage. Mr. Reasoner was
upset by this carelessness and sued John for negligence. Which of the
following is the *best* argument for the defendant, John?

a\. John did not act below a reasonable standard of care.

\*b. There was no damage done.

c\. Mr. Reasoner had voluntarily assumed the risk.

d\. Mr. Reasoner was contributorily negligent.

33\) Why is it possible for a person to be acquitted of the crime of
assault but then to be successfully sued by the victim for the injuries
he suffered during the same incident?

\*a. The standard of proof for the Plaintiff in civil actions is easier
to meet than for the prosecution in criminal actions.

b\. It is possible only if the Crown Prosecutor were to seek damages for
the victim.

c\. The standard of proof in criminal actions is harder for the
Defendant to meet than it is in civil actions.

d\. In a civil action, the court is not bound to follow the rules of
evidence and, in a criminal case, the burden of proof is on the
Defendant prove his innocence.

34\) Two real estate agents, John and Mary, were hurrying to a meeting.
They stopped at a bakery for a quick snack. John bought two raisin
muffins and gave one to Mary. They began to eat the muffins as they
hurried to the car. After she had eaten some of the muffin, Mary noticed
that the raisins were full of little worms. John then looked at his and
saw it was the same. Based on these facts, which of the following
possibilities is *true*? (Read each choice independently from the
others):

\*a. Since Mary did not buy the muffins, she could not sue in contract,
but if she were injured she could sue in tort.

b\. Even if Mary was not injured by eating the worms, she could sue the
baker of the muffins for injurious falsehood.

c\. If Mary sues the baker of the muffins or the supplier of the
raisins, she would have to prove only one thing to win her case -- that
there were worms in the muffin.

d\. Mary cannot sue because she did not purchase the muffin herself.

35\) Which of the following is *correct* with respect to the principle
of subrogation as it relates to insurance law?

a\. Subrogation refers to the insured\'s right to demand payment from
the insurance company if the insured-against event takes place.

b\. Subrogation refers to the principle that the insured cannot benefit
from his own wrongdoing.

c\. Subrogation refers to the principle that, if the insured does not
take out enough insurance, he will be taken to be responsible for a
portion of any loss incurred.

\*d. Subrogation refers to the principle that, if an insurance company
pays out on a policy, they assume all of the rights of the insured
against the person causing the loss.

36\) In which of the following situations would you most likely have an
insurable interest?

a\. Your neighbour's house

b\. Your friend's truck

\*c. Your key employee's life

d\. Your favourite restaurant

37\) If the court finds the defendant liable for the tort of battery,
the court could award damages to the Plaintiff that were not for the
purpose of compensating the Plaintiff, but for the purpose of punishing
the Defendant. Such damages are called

a\. special damages.

b\. general damages.

\*c. punitive damages.

d\. compensatory damages.

38\) Dr. Pyramid, a physics professor at a University in Ontario was
denied 'tenure' which would have provided him with job security status
for the rest of his career. The tenure denial decision was made by the
Physics Department Human Resources Committee who met, in person, and
whose reasoning was that although Dr. Pyramid was a brilliant researcher
who published many papers, his quirky personality made him an awkward
colleague. Dr. Pyramid wants to challenge the tenure denial decision by
arguing it was reached in a way that is against principles of natural
justice. Which of the following would be helpful to Dr. Pyramid's
challenge of the Committee's decision?

a\. The Committee members heard evidence in support of Dr. Pyramid's
tenure application.

b\. The Committee members heard evidence against Dr. Pyramid's tenure
application.

b\. The Committee members who heard the evidence were the people who
made the tenure decision.

c\. The Committee members sent copies of all relevant documents to Dr.
Pyramid ahead of the meeting.

\*d. The Committee members scheduled the tenure decision meeting while
Dr. Pyramid was in the hospital recovering from Covid-19.

39\) The Magna Carta of 1215 is important to the development of
constitutional law because

a\. it was England's first document publicly affirming the absolute
power of the monarchy.

\*b. it required that "freemen" could be punished only in accordance
with the law of the land.

c\. it officially separated England's legal system from Papal law of the
church.

d\. it required that Parliament be democratically elected by men and
women "seized of property or estate."

e\. it set the stage for England to supplant the civil-law system
imposed by the Normans in 1066 with the common-law system used by the
Saxons.

40\) In an administrative tribunal, which one of the following is not
one of the requirements of natural justice?

a\. Notice of the hearing.

b\. An opportunity to present your side.

\*c. To be properly constituted, the tribunal should have at least three
members.d. The decision should be made free from bias.

e\. The evidence should be heard by the person making the decision.

41\) Which one of the following statements with regard to the tort of
negligence is *true*?

a\. If a person is injured by a defective product that he himself did
not purchase, he cannot sue the manufacturer for negligence.

b\. If the court finds contributory negligence, the defendant has no
liability at all.

c\. If physical injury can be foreseen as the result of a person\'s
actions, the wrongdoer will be not be liable for all the injury
suffered.

\*d. A possible defence to the plaintiff\'s claim of negligence is that
the plaintiff volunteered to take the risk (volenti).

e\. The test used to determine whether a duty of care is owed is this:
would a person of below-average intelligence foresee that the plaintiff
could be affected by the acts of the defendant.

42\) In Canada, a manufacturer's breach of duty of care to customers ...

a\. must be proven beyond a reasonable doubt by the plaintiff.

b\. can be determined on the basis of strict liability.

\*c. can be inferred from circumstantial evidence.

d\. is presumed in all cases where a person is injured by a
manufacturer's product.

e\. is governed by whether privity of contract exists.

43\) A land appraiser prepared an appraisal (an estimate of the value)
of a property for a real-estate development company. The appraiser had
been told that the appraisal would be used by the company to attract
potential investors. Because the appraiser forgot to check the recent
changes in the zoning by-laws, the appraisal was not accurate; the
investor, a party unknown to the appraiser, was misled about the value
of the land and, consequently, suffered a financial loss. Which of the
following is correct?

a\. A land appraiser owes a duty of care to his client but not to any
potential investors.

b\. A land appraiser owes a duty of care to his client and to potential
investors only if he knows the name of the investor.

\*c. The investor has a potential claim against the appraiser for
\"negligent misstatement causing economic loss.\"

d\. The investor must suffer his own loss, because an investor takes the
risk and so must take care.

e\. A person cannot be sued for words that cause loss, only for actions
that cause physical injury or a mental disorder.

44\) Allerbee Farming Ltd. manufactures fertilizer from organic matter,
a by-product of which is explosive methane gas. During the processing,
some of this gas escaped and drifted onto the adjacent property, where
it caused an explosion damaging a building owned by Boundless Warehouse
Ltd. Allerbee Farming Ltd. would be liable for the loss under which one
of the following principles?

\*a. Strict liability

b\. Vicarious liability

c\. Product liability

d\. Occupiers\' Liability Act

e\. Contributory negligence

45\) In which of the following situations would qualified privilege
serve as a defence to a civil claim for defamation?

a\. A Member of Parliament makes a speech in Parliament criticizing a
fellow M.P. in which he made some claims that were not true.

b\. A witness in a criminal trial makes untrue statements about the
accused.

\*c. A family doctor sends a referral letter to a specialist which
inadvertently says something false and damaging about a patient.

d\. A student posts untrue statements about another student on her blog.

46\) Andrea sells brand-name jewelry belonging to Paula although Paula
does not know about it. What is the tort?

a\. intentional interference with economic relations

\*b. conversion

c\. robbery

d\. deceit

e\. product defamation

47\) In relation to insurance coverage, which one of the following does
not belong?

\*a. your fraud

b\. your damaged or stolen property

c\. your professional liability

d\. your business interruption

e\. your spouse's life

48\) One of the features of the rule of law is that, you can have a
right taken away only by due process of law.

\*a. true

b\. false

49\) The purpose of garnishment for a judgment creditor is to intercept
funds owed to the judgment debtor in order to redirect them to the
judgment creditor.

\*a. true

b\. false

50\) The "Anns" Case lays down the basic rule that even if the defendant
is not negligent, the plaintiff can still recover from the defendant
when social policies are taken into consideration.

a\. true

\*b. false
